[Ragnar]
Previously onVikings...
Hvitserk, if you like,
I will have him killed.
No.
We can elect a new ruler.
I intend to stand.
I too intend to stand.
You see? The way that Othere
always whispers
into Ubbe's ear.
I worry about you, my dear.
About me?
[Asa screams]
Jormungandr.
Asa!
No.
He's come back.
I was and I still am
the elected King of all Norway.
Skane's men,
they just want to belong here.
Between the three of us,
we will forge the future
of Kattegat.
Prince Dir is ready.
Today is Good Friday.
Today you must do
everything we tell you.
[grunting]
Where is Prince Igor?
["If I Had A Heart" playing]
[crowd murmuring]
Find Igor.
[acolytes chanting
in Byzantine Greek]
They came to a place
called Golgotha.
[indistinct chatter]
They came to a place
called Golgotha.
[chanting continues]
My brothers,
I offer myself up for you.
-[woman] It's me who told you.
-[man] Be quiet!
[woman] Be quiet yourself.
[gasps and groans]
[man] Bless you.
[grunts]
[horse neighs]
[crowd murmurs]
[Igor] What do we do?
Pray to the gods.
[praying]
[Bishop Leon
speaking Byzantine Greek]
[grunts]
[gasps]
[viking] Bail it out!
Come on!
Torvi!
Othere.
Come and look.
[breathing heavily]
[Othere] What is it?
Do you see? It's land.
That must be it, hmm?
That must be the golden land.
Look! Land!
[excited chatter]
[exhales]
[woman 1] Throw them out.
[woman 2] Do you know what
the new place will be like?
[chatter continues]
[Harald] What are you doing?
You don't have to leave here.
Gunnhild, I know people
would have elected you.
You would make a great Queen.
Forgive me, Skane,
but these are personal matters.
[chuckles softly]
We should never
forget our past.
Ever.
We all live in the past,
although some people
don't understand that.
You and I and Bjorn,
we, uh...
belong together.
We danced around each other.
[chuckles]
We hated
and we loved each other.
I remember every time
I ever saw you,
and I remember every time
I was in the company of Bjorn.
Our sagas are one and the same.
Bjorn died.
I also died.
But for some reason
I came back to life.
You can't have Bjorn anymore.
At least not
as a warm body
in your bed.
[sighs] You can have me.
And you can be
Queen of Kattegat.
If I marry you?
I ask in all humility,
and I expect
no immediate answer.
-Well...
-I lost Bjorn's child.
I know.
But you can
still have children.
The past is never finished.
Is this it?
Your golden land, Othere?
[baby whines]
[captain calls out]
[crowd cheering]
[crowd chanting]
Igor! Igor! Igor!
[barking]
[howls]
[all laughing]
I cannot express my joy
at your arrival.
[crowd cheering]
You are among friends
and finally where you belong!
[cheering]
King Ivar.
I had no idea how you would
affect your escape from Kiev.
I felt certain
that you would manage it.
Tomorrow, we will plan
our attack on Kiev.
The challenges are great,
but we must act.
So, in the meantime,
we prepare.
Come.
-Celebrate!
-[crowd cheering]
I love you. Whoever you are.
My beautiful, insatiable wife.
My love.
My heart.
[kissing]
It seems after all
that you were not alone
in betraying me.
It has become a custom
among my wives.
They run after everything,
even cripples.
What have I done wrong?
Why has Our Lord abandoned me
and made me a figure of fun,
a stupid cuckold?
They will pay the price.
You were very lucky,
I spared your suffering.
But I will not spare them.
They must suffer
beyond suffering.
[indistinct chatter]
This is not the land
that you described. [grunts]
Forests and valleys?
[Ingvild] The golden sands.
The sound of birdsong
on the sweet air.
Maybe he never saw such things.
Maybe he just dreamed them.
-[man shouting]
-[all clamoring]
[man] You misguiding dog.
Maybe we should
just let Othere speak.
As far as I can see,
this is not
the land I glimpsed
all those years ago.
-[man] You lied!
-[woman] Everything from
your mouth is lies!
[Othere] How do I know
where we are?
I was not lying.
I saw what I saw.
What possible motive
would I have to lie to you?
-[woman] You tricked us all!
-[crowd shouting]
-I don't accuse Othere.
-[clamor stops]
Very well, this is not
the golden land
that we dreamed of,
but it is still land.
And very possibly free land.
Now, we as farmers,
we know the value of land, huh?
Especially if we don't have
to pay for it.
We should claim this land
and establish a colony here.
For it seems to me
the gods sent us here
for a purpose.
I agree with Ketill.
We do not know anything
about this land yet.
We should send out
an exploratory party,
see what we can discover
about this new place,
the other inhabitants,
maybe even a food source.
Yes. Otherwise,
we will all be dead.
[crowd clamoring]
You thinking about Asa?
It was my fault.
It was not your fault.
It was fated to happen
and that's the end of it.
You don't want
to talk about it?
No.
We will talk no more of Asa.
[Torvi sniffles]
-[baby gurgling]
-[sniffling]
[indistinct chatter]
[sniffs]
Why do you live here, Ingrid?
I don't feel comfortable
at the Great Hall
with Gunnhild.
It doesn't seem right.
Hmm.
But you wanted to be Queen?
The food is ready.
Please sit down.
[chuckles softly]
[groans]
You haven't answered
my question.
Do you want some ale?
Why did you want to be Queen?
Because I'm carrying
Bjorn's child.
[Ingrid gasps]
But it's not
Bjorn's child, is it?
You know it's not.
It's our child.
And what is this? Hmm?
Huh?
You're a witch?
Then this, this is either
a love potion or it's poison.
Go on, pour it down, then.
Pour it in.
Pour it all in. Do as I say!
[cup clatters]
[Harald exhales]
[indistinct chatter]
[grunts]
My Lord. It is done.
Prince
I have called
you all to council
because, as you have heard,
my ward, Prince Igor,
has been kidnapped
by Ivar the Boneless
and his brother Hvitserk.
And that my wife
is also missing.
[murmuring]
I have firm information
that Ivar has joined forces
with my brother Dir
in Novgorod.
We have no choice
but to prepare for an attack.
We will repel Dir's attack
and then make counterattacks,
to devastating effect!
[indecisive murmuring]
I am the Prophet.
And I can tell you
that our victory is assured.
My brother Dir
will fall from the balcony
of this palace,
struck in the chest by an arrow
fired by Prince Igor,
heir to the throne
and my beloved nephew.
Hail Igor!
[all] Hail Igor!
Hail Igor! Hail Igor!
Hail Igor!
[sighs]
Skogarmaor. Sit
[Erik] Why do you
still call me that?
[Harald scoffs]
Because it's true.
I know all about you.
I know who and what
you really are,
and I'm sure
no one else does.
[Erik] You know what you know.
I'm different now.
Of course. Aren't we all?
What is it you want?
Do you want to stay here?
I like being an outsider.
You trafficked
slaves illegally.
You killed people
in futile property quarrels,
not once but twice.
And you were expelled
from two kingdoms.
I've changed.
[yells] Into what?
What is it you want?
[Harald exhales]
[clicks tongue]
[Harald sighs]
I have to appoint
a new head of my body guard.
Skane's ambitious.
I'm not sure I trust him.
I wondered if you would
accept the position.
[indistinct chatter]
[woman] Ketill.
Oh, Ketill.
-Well?
-We traveled many rost.
It is indeed a strange land.
It is a strange land.
We saw no signs
of other humans.
No animal or wildlife,
no trees or minerals,
except in the sea.
Which is also full
of driftwood,
from where we know not.
Nevertheless,
if the conditions in Iceland
are anything to go by,
I believe that our prospects
and the weather here
will improve very soon, huh?
Then we should try
and settle this empty land.
This land?
[murmurs]
I agree. So, I suggest
that our next move
be to parcel up the land
equally and fairly
between all of the families.
All of you must spread out
and decide for yourselves
where it is that
you want to build a farm.
But we cannot farm.
There will be
hardships for sure.
But we are hardy people,
are we not?
What are we going
to call this land?
Well, since there are no trees,
why don't we call it Greenland?
[all laughing]
How will we attract
new settlers, huh?
[all laughing]
-[indistinct chatter]
-[Ketill laughs]
[sighs]
[Ubbe] I believe you.
This is not the land
that you saw.
[Othere] No.
Thank you.
[sighs]
[indistinct chatter]
[Skane] Erik.
What do you want?
I don't waste words.
Harald's coronation is soon
and I don't trust him.
And he doesn't trust you.
So, let's kill him
and crown you instead.
What do you say?
[people chattering]
How are we to survive, Ubbe?
I don't know.
We'll just have to.
When the weather
finally improves,
we will have a choice.
We can sail back to Iceland
or we can sail west again,
try and find
Othere's golden land.
You still believe it exists?
You still... trust Othere?
The truth is, Torvi,
I have to find that land.
Otherwise, my life,
it is filled with no meaning.
I would rather die
trying to find that land
than return to Iceland
a failure,
doubting myself,
doubting the gods.
[Harald moans]
[sighs]
They have the crown?
-[servant] Yes, my Lord Harald.
-Good.
It didn't belong
to Bjorn in any case.
[servant] No, my Lord Harald.
No. Good.
Then everything is ready.
-It's finished.
-It's good.
[servant 2] My Lord Harald.
Let her in.
What?
[softly] Gunnhild
wants to see you.
Now?
-Before the coronation?
-Yes. I'll take you there.
[indistinct chatter]
-Are you sure?
-Yes, my Lord Harald.
Gunnhild is in here?
Yes, my Lord, I swear.
This is the place.
Gunnhild is waiting.
[snickers]
Women.
Gunnhild?
[grunts]
No. Not Gunnhild.
It's me, Skane.
Here is your death.
[chuckles]
The King is dead.
[breathing heavily]
Long live the King.
[thudding]
[gasping]
[laughs]
Skogarmaor!
[Erik] In sight
of all these people
gathered freely together,
and in sight
of the Aesir and Vanir,
I crown you King of Kattegat
and of all Norway.
May the gods love and keep you.
[crowd cheering]
I appoint this man
as the head of my body guard.
[crowd cheering]
I want to make it known
that it is my intention
to marry the beautiful
and the beloved Gunnhild,
and to make her my Queen!
[crowd cheering]
And it is also my intention
to marry the woman
called Ingrid,
who will also be my Queen!
[crowd cheering]
And now, let us all celebrate!
[man] Ingrid, our Queen!
Prince.
I've been wanting
to speak to you
for a few days now.
But whenever I feel ready
to speak to you,
I become afraid.
Afraid?
Yes.
No one in this world
has ever done for me
what you have done for me.
I know everything now.
I know I was Oleg's puppet.
I know I was abused by Oleg.
But you were always my friend.
You have to understand
that I was your friend
because I needed you to help me
escape from your uncle.
But still, no one
has ever cared for me
the way you have cared for me.
I think you saw something
of yourself in me.
I was a cripple too.
I was so damaged,
I wanted to die.
[sighs]
You saved me.
You have been everything to me,
Ivar the Boneless.
I love you. And I always will.
[kisses]
[horse passing by]
I just want the truth.
I don't care how much
the truth hurts anymore.
I am beyond that.
Are you absolutely certain that
you are carrying Bjorn's child?
No. Of course not.
You know King Harald raped me.
I don't understand.
How can you possibly
contemplate marrying
King Harald
after what he did to you?
You know perfectly well why.
Look at it from my position.
I am not a shield-maiden
like you, or Lagertha.
I have no advantages,
no way of making
my life better,
except for using my wits
and my sex.
Can you blame me?
[thunder rumbling]
[snoring]
-[thunder crashes]
-[Seer] Thunder but no rain.
Dry, sterile thunder
without rain.
Ice, but no water.
A sterile land.
A godless land.
Unreal.
The gods must be here.
[Seer] They avoided this place,
between one world and another.
I have roamed far
and learned much.
This blasted place,
without solace,
without even ghosts.
[thunder rumbling]
The gods are everywhere.
All that the gods know, I know.
We should leave this place.
[Seer] If you can.
But listen to the thunder.
He who was living is now dead.
We who were living
are now dying.
Ragnar? Do you mean Ragnar?
I mean all of us. We are dying.
And this is not a place
we found by mistake.
This is not a place at all.
It is a state of the soul.
Don't you see, son of Ragnar?
Or are you as blind
as all the rest?
No, stay with me.
Stay with me, wise one.
Comfort me.
[crow cawing]
My darling Bjorn.
My love. My heart.
My husband.
I come to praise you...
and speak to you as my husband.
I am under pressure
to marry King Harald.
It seems the only way
to retain my status.
I am a woman.
If I do not marry him,
then I am nothing again.
The time of great heroes
is over, Bjorn.
We lost Ragnar,
we lost Lagertha,
and we lost you.
Perhaps...
Perhaps the Golden Age
of the Vikings is gone.
It's over.
Lesser men
have taken your place.
Harald, Erik, and others.
Whatever happens,
I will not compromise myself.
I will not compromise you.
I will do the right thing.
[Frodi] Father!
[woman] What is it?
[Frodi] Come! Father!
Father! Come!
Father! Father! Come! Quickly!
Father!
Come!
[murmuring]
O Lord, you have come among us.
[Frodi] Look!
Father, look.
[indistinct chatter]
O Lord, you have come here.
Come to deliver us.
Lord, have mercy.
Lord, you are here.
Christ, the Deliverer.
People, as you can see,
the whale has washed up
on my property.
Look for yourselves,
it's true. It's our whale.
[Ubbe] But surely
you mean to share it?
You don't need
the whole animal, hmm?
There's enough food and fuel
for the entire settlement.
I will have to discuss that
with my family.
All I'm saying, at the moment,
legally, the whale
belongs to me.
If anyone can prove otherwise,
let them say so!
[Ubbe] I'm surprised
at you, Ketill.
I thought we were
all in this together, no?
Listen, Ubbe,
you see how it is.
The gods,
they make their decisions.
The gods decide.
There has to be some reason
the whale beached
on my property.
It's called luck.
There's no such thing,
as well you know.
[music playing]